
 
***Re-Volt*** is a racing video game designed by Paul Phippen and Simon Harrison.[4][5] It was developed by Acclaim Studios London and published by Acclaim Entertainment for Microsoft Windows, Nintendo 64, PlayStation and Dreamcast.
 
The premise of the game involves racing radio-controlled cars around environments like museums, steamships, construction sites and supermarkets. During a race the cars can collect random weapons to use to displace competitors. Cars and tracks were both unlocked through success in the game's tournament modes.
 
**Download ✒ ✒ ✒ [https://ammetephy.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SiX](https://ammetephy.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SiX)**


 
In October 1999, Acclaim Entertainment released the *Re-Volt* Car Editor which allowed players to export and edit, or create new cars for the PC version using 3D studio.[7] The editor was simply discovered in the Acclaim Studios London office and as such was released as an unapproved and unsupported piece of code.[8]
 
An Xbox version called *Re-Volt Live* was in development with a very limited beta version distributed to closed beta testers. This stripped-down version of *Re-Volt* was issued to beta testers of the Xbox Live service prior to the launch of the service on the original Xbox system, but much to the disappointment of fans - a more complete version was never released on the Microsoft console. The full game was cancelled close to being finished. Even though it was not officially released, the full development version is available and can be played on a modified Xbox that is capable of running games from a storage device.[9]
 
In September 2004, a modified version of *Re-Volt* was released for the arcade machines by Tsunami Visual Technologies. This port of the game featured a few changes in gameplay and graphics. It ran on Microsoft Windows 98 and came in two versions: the TsuMo Standard Non-Motion Sit Down *Re-Volt* and a deluxe model. Similar to the Dreamcast version's Time Trial mode and many other arcade racers, there is a global timer. This version also featured additional tracks, among those the fan-made Venice by Gabor and a new track created by Kurt Arnlund, an ex-Tsunami employee.
 
In July 2012, *Re-Volt* was announced for iOS and Android mobile platforms.[11] *Re-Volt* was released for iOS as *Re-Volt Classic* in October.[12] An Android version of the game was released on April 24, 2013 to the Korean T-Store and later to the Play Store.[13]
 
On October 3, 2013, the PC version of *Re-Volt* was re-released through digital distribution on GOG.com.[14] The release was based on the community developed 1.2 Beta patch, with additional support for the original CD tracks as MP3 files. The game was pulled on request from the developers of the 1.2 Beta patch in January 2014 due to a misunderstanding with publishers WeGo Interactive, in which the company used parts of the code written by the community without due consent.[15][16][17]
 
Following the closure of WeGo Interactive, the rights to the title transitioned to a new company called Superday Inc., which was made up of ex-WeGo staff. Through Korean publisher H2 Interactive, the PC version was relisted on GOG.com in April 2022, which reverted the game back to the original 1.0 version of the game.[18][19] This version of the game was released on Steam on 29 July 2022, which also includes Steam Workshop.[20]
 
Although Acclaim Entertainment has been defunct since 2004, fans continued to support and extend the game by producing fan-made vehicles and courses, and by operating multiplayer servers. Fans have created an open-source, cross-platform chat/lobby client called "RV House" that allows players to connect and play online.[22] This platform is directly interconnected to the website "Revolt Race Archived 2023-02-05 at the Wayback Machine", in which, among other features, a monthly set of tracks is chosen to serve as the base for time trialing. Additionally, more recently the community has set up a Discord channel that serves as the major hub to talk about the game, host, advertise and join races, share content/mods or even help develop new tools and updates for the game - which the latest iteration consists of *RVGL*, a cross-platform rewrite/port of *Re-Volt*'s source code that runs natively on both Windows and Linux.

While new players may experience a significant learning curve, the community remains active with records of fastest laps and new courses and cars still being added. The fan-base have gone on to maintain the PC version with alpha and beta updates.[23][24] The game was also ported by the fan community to multiple platforms such as Linux, macOS, Android, ODROID,[25] and OpenPandora based on the available source code.[26][24]
 
The PC and Dreamcast versions received favourable reviews, and the Nintendo 64 version and *Re-Volt Classic* received mixed reviews, while the PlayStation version received unfavourable reviews, according to the review aggregation websites GameRankings and Metacritic.[27][28][29][30][31][32] Mark Clarkson of *Computer Gaming World* praised the PC version's graphics and environments, and realistic RC-like handling, although he noted that the in-game map editor was poor.[37] Vincent Lopez of *IGN* praised the same PC version's graphics, the gameplay and interface, but criticised the game's techno music and track editor.[55] Rick Sanchez of *NextGen*'s September 1999 issue called the same PC version "a fun romp, but if it had taken its toy inspiration over the top, this could have been excellent."[59] An issue later, however, Jeremy Willams said, "Those with a bit of patience will find Acclaim's *Re-Volt* to be a very accurate little R/C simulator, and a rewarding game."[58] Five issues after that second review, Greg Orlando said of the Dreamcast version, "An excellent, albeit lighthearted, racing game, *Re-Volt* is best experienced with a group."[57] In Japan, where the PlayStation version was ported for release on 6 January 2000, followed by the Dreamcast version on 13 July, *Famitsu* gave it a score of 30 out of 40 for the latter,[65] and 23 out of 40 for the former.[66]
 
Nick McElveen of *Computer Games Strategy Plus* gave the PC version four stars out of five, saying, "Although steering wheels and joysticks work well with *Re-Volt*, console-racing nostalgists will quickly conclude that a gamepad is the most effective controller. Unfortunately, given *Re-Volt*'s addictive gameplay, this may portend the return from remission of thousands of cases of 'Nintendo thumb.'"[67] Brad Cook of *AllGame* gave the same PC version three stars out of five, saying, "While *Re-Volt* is a beauty to look at, it will unfortunately tax any but the biggest and best PCs out there."[68] However, he gave the Dreamcast version two-and-a-half stars out of five, saying, "The developers at Acclaim Studios London probably thought they were on the right track when they decided to make the game adhere to the laws of physics in every mode of play, but they weren't. I would have preferred an Arcade mode that was just for fun and a simulation mode that required better attention to physics. If they could have set the game up that way, it probably could be on its way to classic status right now instead of bargain bin nominee."[69] Scott McCall gave the Nintendo 64 version two stars out of five, saying that it was "missing the most important ingredient of any game: fun. And let's see, the frame rate is terrible, the environments are too large for four measly cars, and pick-ups don't increase the intensity level. The search continues for a spiritual successor to *R.C. Pro-Am*. Avoid."[70] Christopher Michael Baker also gave the PlayStation version two stars, saying, "It's hard to think of nice things to say about *Re-Volt*, so I won't strain my brain. It might best be described in one word as revol... no, I won't subject you to that horrible pun. Just take my advice and spend your money on another game."[71]
 
*N64 Magazine* gave the Nintendo 64 version 73%.[72] Vicious Sid of *GamePro* called the same Nintendo 64 version "a nearly unbeatable choice for N64 racing fans."[73][d] However, Uncle Dust said in another review, "With so many other quality and fun racing titles available on the N64, it is definitely a good idea to avoid *Re-Volt* for N64."[74][e] The same author later said of the Dreamcast version, "While the much improved graphics give you extra incentive to win more races, many gamers will still be turned off by the annoying physics and control. Hardcore R/C fans will love it and Dreamcast owners who are still looking for a solid racer may want to give it a try."[75][f] Air Hendrix, however, said of the PC version, "Overall, *Re-Volt* is equal parts fun and frustration. If you're a talented twitch gamer with a high tolerance for frustration, give it a try. But poor controls, driving surfaces as slick as your neighborhood bowling alley, and a limited view had me howling in mental agony every time I stepped on the gas."[76][g]
 
Johnny B. of *GameRevolution* gave the PC version a B+, saying that it "may have tracks and cars that let you get more air and bounce basketballs, but underneath it's still just a fairly typical arcade racer."[77] Another author of the same website also gave the Dreamcast version a B+, saying that it was "definitely one of those games that racing fans need to pick up. Of course, its difficulty will have gamers with weak hearts running for the hills. But for those of you with the patience to learn, *Re-Volt* offers a thoroughly enjoyable experience."[78] Kevin Bowen of *PlanetDreamcast* gave the same Dreamcast version 8.5 out of 10, saying, "Sure, the Dreamcast already has a bunch of racing games, but *Re-Volt* is unquestionably unique. The difficulty level and somewhat spotty frame rate are really the only significant flaws. It's a solid game with a lot to offer, both in single and multiplayer modes, and in some ways [it] is even better 