You will need access to Mastering Chemistry for homework assignments and quizzes. You can buy a standalone access code kit, or purchase access from the publisher's registration website (easiest method).

Register at www.masteringchemistry.com with Course ID MCLEVITUS5874778. If you haven't purchased an access card with the book, you can purchase access to Mastering Chemistry in the same registration page. You will need pay pal or a credit card. You are expected to complete the registration the first days of classes. Use an e-mail address you check regularly, as the professor will use the same platform to send announcements when needed (that is, we will NOT use Canvas for announcements). Student SupportIf you need help setting up your computer, registering, or using the website, please check the publisher's support web page: 

Deadlines for assignments will not be changed, so if you start your assignment too close to the deadline and you have technical issues, you won't have time to resolve them on time. Luckily problems are rare, but just in case be sure you start your homework and quizzes with time to spare. Dealing with UnitsMastering has strict rules when dealing with units. Be careful or you will lose points even if your numerical answer is correct!
Write the unit abbreviation. Do NOT add a period after the unitUnits are case sensitive (kJ, Pa) Mastering can accept as correct a unit answer that is equivalent to the correct answer. For example, if the correct answer is 2 V and you enter 2000 mV, you will receive full credit. However, if the question asks you to answer using a specific unit, you must answer using that exact unit.- Check \_units\_list.htm for a complete list of accepted units and instructions of how to enter them
 Other tips and issuesAvoid rounding errors. Mastering uses a default 5% acceptable rounding error in most problems. If you perform several steps and round in each, chances are you will have more than a 5% error at the end even if your procedure was correct.  Don't use commas for large numbers. Mastering will think you input two or more answers separated by a comma.There are obvious disadvantages when a computer grades your homework. You cannot get partial credit, and you cannot get credit for mistakes that are not real mistakes (such as typing joules with a lowercase J). Don't ask us to modify your grade manually. Remember that you have 3 trials/question, so take your time to think about why your answer may be wrong before trying again. Even if you exhaust your three attempts and your answer was indeed correct (e.g. you kept using 'j' for 'J'), remember that missing one problem one time will decrease your grade by a negligible amount.A disadvantage of Mastering Chemistry is that you are not practicing showing your work. You may even have a 'correct' answer that may be incorrect. For example, you may be off by 2% due to a conceptual mistake, but your work is incorrect. You will get your points in Mastering Chemistry, but you will not get the points in an exam when a human grades your work. There is no solution for this other than you taking the initiative to check your work with classmates and TAs. This is especially true when you see that your answer is off by more than 1% even if you didn't round in intermediate steps.It is a good idea that you keep a notebook for homework. Many students solve problems on scratch paper, and then realize they do not have their work to study for an exam. It is not uncommon that students come to office hours asking for help, but they do not have any record of their work. Remember that your goal is not just to enter correct answers, but also to learn how to work through the problem showing all your steps.
 
**Download File ○○○ [https://ammetephy.blogspot.com/?d=2A0S80](https://ammetephy.blogspot.com/?d=2A0S80)**


 
One of the main problems of contemporary system of education is the disunity of subject methods of teaching which prevents mastering of basic Natural Science concepts and systematic mastering of educational material. The renewal of the content and teaching methods of Natural Science subjects at school and at higher educational institutions must be implemented with the system approach (Gerus 2013).
 
Methods of research were chosen according to the tasks solved at its separate stages. In the process of research there were used the following methods: the analysis of didactic and methodical literature and educational practice at secondary and higher school with regards of world tendencies of educational development; comparative analysis of pedagogical experience concerning implementation of the approach oriented at knowledge and the competency one in Chemistry teaching; system analysis of concepts, categories and phenomena; forecasting, projecting, modeling/ At the empirical level there were used: experimental testing of the developed methods of teaching in the terms of contemporary information environment of the school and the higher educational institution; pedagogical observation, interview, questionnaire, testing, pedagogical experiment; studying and generalizing of own and advanced pedagogical experience on the researched problem. There were used methods of statistic processing of experimental data results; numeric and graphical presentation of information and its methodical analysis.
 
The main idea of this technology is that the tasks are not isolated from each other but connected with the plot and are solved not as separate units but as an integrated task in the frames of the lesson. The composition of tasks for the Chemistry class includes:

Problem 1 (direct). Solubility of ammonium iodide in water at the temperature of 30 degrees C is 181.7 g in 100 g of water. Calculate the weight fraction of ammonium iodide in the solution saturated at given temperature.
 
The solution of direct and reversed problems facilitates in pupils of necessary associations and stable temporal connections in Chemistry. Besides the search of solutions of reversed problems, the search of logic operation sequence, work with ones and the same quantitative variables facilitate its revision with simultaneous usage of two ways of teaching: rational based on causal relations and additional intuitive transformation (Vasilyeva and Tugulchiyeva 2014).
 
Federal State Educational Standard of general education emphasizes making chemical equations and making calculations on their basis as one of subject competencies. We recommend solving complex problems in the context of which there is demanded not only to make the equation of oxidation-reduction reaction but also to derive the formula of organic substance according to the information about its composition, to define its structure and also to make calculations in accordance with chemical equations. Our big experience of school practice shows that the analysis of such problems allows individualizing of teaching, developing cognitive interest and creative abilities of pupils.
 
Pedagogues of Kalmyk Republic use technologies of didactic units consolidation at different stages and levels of education at schools and higher educational institutions. Long experience of using technologies at schools in the Republic has shown its advantage over traditional ways of teaching.
 
Thus, tasks concerning independent problem making up as the means of practical implementation of theory must be included into the structure of Natural Science teaching as one of the conditions of system approach implementation in continuing education. Transformation of problems, presenting it in different forms help students understand rational character of action sequence while mastering calculation skills that means getting system knowledge in the field on Natural Sciences. Projecting of teaching technologies in the terms of nowadays educational reality must be anticipated by system analysis of the existing situation, usage of available reserves, investigation and assessment of social expectations and demands of the society.
 
Authors are heartily grateful to teachers of Biology, Information Science, Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry of secondary schools # 5 and # 22 of Kaluga for active participation in testing of research results.
 
The article was implemented within the framework of the project "Updating the content of general education and teaching methods in a modern information environment". Project cipher: 27.6122.2017 / BCh
 
Vasilyeva P.D. and Tugulchiyeva V.S. (2014). Solving of system of interlinked problems in Chemistry teaching. Theses of reports of the 12th European conference on researches in chemistry (ECRICE2014). University Jyvaskyla, Finland.
 
Mirenkova E.V. (2014). Forming the ability to read the equation for the reaction and image chemicals. Journal of Science Education, 15, Special Issue: Proceedings of the 2d International Congress of Science Education, 15 Years of the Journal of Science Education.
 
Volkova S.A. (2018). Theory and practice of updating the content of education in chemistry and teaching methods, in view of modern science and technology achievements. Venesuela Espacios, 39(5), 1-7. Retrieved from:
 a2f82b0cb4
 
