A new prayer session is produced every day of the working week and one session for the weekend. It is not a 'Thought for the Day"", a sermon or a bible-study, but rather a framework for your own prayer.
 
Jesus was saying in Matthew 6:7 that we must not regard prayer as some kind of magical incantation, for that is how pagans pray. They recite certain phrases over and over again, with no understanding of what the words mean. In these contexts, prayers are used as mantras, with the hope that they will change the environment or the circumstances in which a person lives. New Age thinking is filled with this type of thing. Jesus did not commend such exercises as godly forms of prayer; rather, He linked the use of vain repetitions to paganism.
 
**Download ○○○ [https://ammetephy.blogspot.com/?d=2A0RTc](https://ammetephy.blogspot.com/?d=2A0RTc)**


 
Christians can easily fall into a pattern of praying in a repetitious fashion, without engaging their minds. It bothers me sometimes when Christians gather for a meal and the host will say to someone there, "John, will you please say the grace for us?" The host doesn't ask for someone to lead in prayer but to say the grace. That kind of language suggests a mere recitation, not a prayer that comes from the heart.
 
Jesus did not give the Lord's Prayer with the intention that it would be repeated mindlessly. When we pray the Lord's Prayer, we need to pray it thoughtfully, giving attention in our minds to its content. It is not a mantra to be repeated without the engagement of the mind or heart. It is an example of godly prayer.
 
Of course, repetition has great value. I've often said that one of my favorite liturgies in the life of the church is the traditional marriage ceremony. You've heard it many times: "Dearly beloved, we are gathered together here today in the presence of God and of these witnesses to unite this man and this woman in the holy bonds of marriage, which was instituted by God," and so it goes. It's a very brief service. It contains pledges, vows, charges, and prayers. For me, the more often I lead this liturgy or hear it, the more blessed I am by the content of it. That is, the more familiar I become with the language, the more I think about it and meditate on it, and I see afresh how rich it is in explaining to us the sanctity of marriage. So it is with the Lord's Prayer. Hearing it over and over again may lead us to mindless repetition, but it also may burn these words, and the underlying principles, into our minds. Repetition in and of itself is not a bad thing. In fact, it's one of the most important ingredients of learning, because it's the rare person who masters a concept or a principle by hearing it once.
 
There is nothing like physical pain to drive you to your knees in prayer. For 20 years, I was plagued by crippling back pain and sciatica. Time after time, I cried out to God for His healing power on my body, but nothing improved. Even as a prayer warrior, I grew weary in going to God about the same thing day in and day out.
 
One of the hardest challenges of the Christian walk is waiting for God to answer our prayers when we urgently need Him to intervene in a circumstance that is breaking our heart, testing our faith, and robbing us of peace and joy. I have been on my knees many times with my Bible in hand, tearfully reminding God of His promises when my husband and I were in a financial crisis, a friend was stricken with a life-threatening disease, or one of my children was in trouble.
 
And for years, many of my prayers have been centered on my own need for a miracle. In 2017, after 20 years of pain, I had back surgery to un-pinch my spinal cord, replace deteriorated discs, and straighten my back. The surgery was the answer to my prayers in many ways. I am grateful every day that I can now walk without leg pain and do many of the things I love, like working in my garden, standing long enough to bake cookies with my granddaughter, and traveling to speak for World Vision. However, the trauma to the nerves in my back is taking much longer to heal, and I continue to cry out to God.
 
Ars Nova & National Black Theatre debut! Broadway: Mean Girls, Beautiful: The Carole King Musical. National Tours: Hamilton: An American Musical, Beautiful: The Carole King Musical, RENT. Television: Dear Edward (Apple TV+), The Other Two (HBO). Her original music is available for streaming on all digital music platforms. Grateful to be here.

**JJJJJerome Ellis** is an animal, stutterer, and artist. He was raised by Jamaican and Grenadian immigrants in Tidewater, VA, where he prays, gardens, and resides among the egrets and asters. Through music, literature, performance, and video he researches relationships among blackness, disabled speech, divinity, nature, sound, and time. He dreams of building a sonic bath house!
 
**Jadele McPherson** is an artist-scholar currently in residence at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture. McPherson founded Lukumi Arts in 2008, an Afro-Cuban arts experimental theater company. In 2021 McPherson produced the Afro-Latinx artist series: Mind, Body & Soul, and also performed in Yoruba Soy with Pedrito Martinez at Carnegie Hall; Rebirthing Yemaya by Beatrice Capote and Wake Up: Liberation Call at Dawn with Abigail DeVille at the Hirshhorn Museum.
 
**The Telsey Office/ Destiny Lilly, CSA** With offices in both New York and Los Angeles, The Telsey Office casts for theater, film, television, and commercials. The Telsey Office is dedicated to creating safe, equitable, and anti-racist spaces through collaboration, artistry, heart, accountability, and advocacy.
 
**Michelle Cole**, MA (she/her) is an educator, choreographer, dancer, scholar, and mother. She is an adjunct faculty and advisor at NYU committed to centering dances and empowering voices of the African diaspora. She has performed on stages from Radio City Music Hall to the National Theater of Kampala in Uganda. In 2020, she established Dance Culture LLC to revolutionize dance education. She was honored as the 2020 NYSDEA Teaching Artist of the Year.
 
We will offer a **mask-required performance** on **Wednesday, September 27 @ 7PM** for those individuals who are more comfortable attending a performance at which everyone is masked. Bars Nova will be closed for that performance and all patrons and front of house staff in attendance will be required to remain masked throughout the performance.
 
There will be a **captioned performance** on **Wednesday, October 18 @ 7PM**. You will need to download GalaPro from your app store and create an account. Find (pray) from the list of productions. Choose your closed captioning as the service service for the show. Follow the steps on your screen (turn phone to airplane mode, connect to the GalaPro Wifi network, turn off all phone notifications). Your phone will be the device for closed captioning.
 
**If a performance is sold out, you can join a standby line** for day-of-show tix made available by last minute cancellations and no-shows. Standby will begin 1 hour prior to curtain and will form outside. Folks from the standby line will be admitted into the show on a rolling basis as availability is confirmed. Standby tix are name-your-price starting at $35 + fees.
 
(pray) is wheelchair accessible. There is a ramp from the sidewalk to the lobby. If you wish or need to remain in your wheelchair throughout the show, our staff will remove the theater chair. This can be done by letting us know your needs/plans in advance; just email dzhang@arsnovanyc.com. It can also be done without prior notice when you arrive! If you wish to transfer to the theater seat from your wheelchair, we are happy to store your wheelchair or motorized mobility aid in the lobby during the performance. The House Manager will return your mobility device to you at the end of the performance as (pray) has no intermission.
 
Licensed service animals (any dogs that are trained to do work or perform tasks for people with disabilities) are welcome at (pray). They must rest in your seating area throughout the performance and are unable to occupy the aisle. Please bring proof of certification or a license for your service animal and be prepared to present it to the House Manager upon request. You can send advance notice to dzhang@arsnovanyc.com, which is appreciated, but not required.
 
There will be a captioned performance on **Wednesday, October 18 @ 7PM**. You will need to download GalaPro from your app store and create an account. Find (pray) from the list of productions. Choose your closed captioning as the service service for the show. Follow the steps on your screen (turn phone to airplane mode, connect to the GalaPro Wifi network, turn off all phone notifications). Your phone will be the device for closed captioning.
 
We have a space adjacent to the lobby that can be made to offer privacy for feeding should you need at any time. See the House Manager onsite and they will arrange a comfortable space, with storage and refrigeration for your materials.
 
If a performance is sold out, you can join a standby line for day-of-show tix made available by last minute cancellations and no-shows. Standby will begin 1 hour prior to curtain and will form outside. Folks from the standby line will be admitted into the show on a rolling basis as availability is confirmed. Standby tix are name-your-price starting at $35 + fees.
 
We **welcome and encourage mask-wearing** to protect yourself and others. However, as mask mandates have lifted and city, state and federal guidelines have changed, **we will not be requiring them at most performances.**
 
We will offer a **mask-required performance on Wednesday, September 27 @ 7PM** for those individuals who are more comfortable attending a performance at which everyone is masked. Bars Nova will be closed for that performance and all patrons and front of house staff in attendance will 